Decomposition Result:[
    {
        "id": "1",
        "content": "Define the module TopModule with input ports clk, resetn, and r[2:0], and output port g[2:0].",
        "source": "I would like you to implement a module named TopModule with the following interface. All input and output ports are one bit unless otherwise specified.",
        "implementation": "module TopModule (\n    input clk,\n    input resetn,\n    input [2:0] r,\n    output reg [2:0] g\n);\n\n    // State encoding\n    typedef enum reg [1:0] {\n        STATE_A = 2'b00,\n        STATE_B = 2'b01,\n        STATE_C = 2'b10,\n        STATE_D = 2'b11\n    } state_t;\n\n    state_t current_state, next_state;\n\n    // State transition logic (next state logic)\n    always @(*) begin\n        case (current_state)\n            STATE_A: begin\n                if (r[0])\n                    next_state = STATE_B;\n                else if (r[1])\n                    next_state = STATE_C;\n                else if (r[2])\n                    next_state = STATE_D;\n                else\n                    next_state = STATE_A;\n            end\n            STATE_B: begin\n                if (r[0])\n                    next_state = STATE_B;\n                else\n                    next_state = STATE_A;\n            end\n            STATE_C: begin\n                if (r[1])\n                    next_state = STATE_C;\n                else\n                    next_state = STATE_A;\n            end\n            STATE_D: begin\n                next_state = STATE_A;\n            end\n            default: next_state = STATE_A;\n        endcase\n    end\n\n    // State flip-flops\n    always @(posedge clk or negedge resetn) begin\n        if (!resetn)\n            current_state <= STATE_A;\n        else\n            current_state <= next_state;\n    end\n\n    // Output logic\n    always @(*) begin\n        g = 3'b000; // Default output\n        case (current_state)\n            STATE_B: g[0] = 1;\n            STATE_C: g[1] = 1;\n            // STATE_D does not grant any device\n            default: g = 3'b000;\n        endcase\n    end\n\nendmodule"
    },
    {
        "id": "2",
        "content": "Implement the state encoding for the FSM with states A, B, C, and D. Assign binary codes to each state.",
        "source": "Assign any state codes that you wish to use.",
        "implementation": "// State encoding for FSM\n  localparam STATE_A = 2'b00;\n  localparam STATE_B = 2'b01;\n  localparam STATE_C = 2'b10;\n  localparam STATE_D = 2'b11;"
    },
    {
        "id": "3",
        "content": "Implement the state transition logic using an always block. This block should handle transitions between states A, B, C, and D based on the input r[2:0] and the priority system described.",
        "source": "The FSM stays in state _A_ as long as there are no requests. When one or more request occurs, then the FSM decides which device receives a grant to use the resource and changes to a state that sets that device's _g[i]_ signal to 1. Each _g[i]_ is an output from the FSM. There is a priority system, in that device 0 has a higher priority than device 1, and device 2 has the lowest priority.",
        "implementation": "// State encoding\n  localparam STATE_A = 2'b00;\n  localparam STATE_B = 2'b01;\n  localparam STATE_C = 2'b10;\n  localparam STATE_D = 2'b11;\n\n  reg [1:0] current_state, next_state;\n\n  // State transition logic\n  always @(*) begin\n    case (current_state)\n      STATE_A: begin\n        if (r[0])\n          next_state = STATE_B;\n        else if (r[1])\n          next_state = STATE_C;\n        else if (r[2])\n          next_state = STATE_D;\n        else\n          next_state = STATE_A;\n      end\n      STATE_B: begin\n        if (r[0])\n          next_state = STATE_B;\n        else\n          next_state = STATE_A;\n      end\n      STATE_C: begin\n        if (r[1])\n          next_state = STATE_C;\n        else\n          next_state = STATE_A;\n      end\n      STATE_D: begin\n        next_state = STATE_A;\n      end\n      default: next_state = STATE_A;\n    endcase\n  end"
    },
    {
        "id": "4",
        "content": "Implement the output logic for g[2:0] using either continuous assignment or an always block. The output should reflect the current state, with g[0] set in state B, g[1] set in state C, and g[2] set in state D.",
        "source": "B (g0=1) -------r0=1-------> B\nB (g0=1) -------r0=0-------> A\nC (g1=1) -------r1=1-------> C\nC (g1=1) -------r1=0-------> A",
        "implementation": "reg [2:0] g;\nreg [1:0] state;\n\nlocalparam A = 2'b00, B = 2'b01, C = 2'b10, D = 2'b11;\n\nalways @(*) begin\n    case (state)\n        B: g = 3'b001; // g[0] set in state B\n        C: g = 3'b010; // g[1] set in state C\n        D: g = 3'b100; // g[2] set in state D\n        default: g = 3'b000; // Default case for state A or any undefined state\n    endcase\nend"
    }
]

Modified Base Query:


I would like you to implement a module named TopModule with the following
interface. All input and output ports are one bit unless otherwise
specified.

 - input  clk
 - input  resetn
 - input  r (3 bits)
 - output g (3 bits)

The module should implement the FSM described by the state diagram shown
below:

  A        --r0=0,r1=0,r2=0--> A
  A        -------r0=1-------> B
  A        -----r0=0,r1=1----> C
  A        --r0=0,r1=0,r2=0--> D
  B (g0=1) -------r0=1-------> B
  B (g0=1) -------r0=0-------> A
  C (g1=1) -------r1=1-------> C
  C (g1=1) -------r1=0-------> A

Resetn is an active-low synchronous reset that resets into state A. This
FSM acts as an arbiter circuit, which controls access to some type of
resource by three requesting devices. Each device makes its request for
the resource by setting a signal _r[i]_ = 1, where _r[i]_ is either
_r[0]_, _r[1]_, or _r[2]_. Each r[i] is an input signal to the FSM, and
represents one of the three devices. The FSM stays in state _A_ as long
as there are no requests. When one or more request occurs, then the FSM
decides which device receives a grant to use the resource and changes to
a state that sets that device's _g[i]_ signal to 1. Each _g[i]_ is an
output from the FSM. There is a priority system, in that device 0 has a
higher priority than device 1, and device 2 has the lowest priority.
Hence, for example, device 2 will only receive a grant if it is the only
device making a request when the FSM is in state _A_. Once a device, _i_,
is given a grant by the FSM, that device continues to receive the grant
as long as its request, _r[i]_ = 1.

Implement a module that represents this FSM. Use separate always blocks
for the state table and the state flip-flops, as done in lectures.
Describe the FSM outputs, _g[i]_, using either continuous assignment
statement(s) or an always block (at your discretion). Assign any state
codes that you wish to use. Assume all sequential logic is triggered on
the positive edge of the clock.

