Decomposition Result:[
    {
        "id": "1",
        "content": "Define the module TopModule with input ports clk, resetn, and r[2:0], and output port g[2:0].",
        "source": "I would like you to implement a module named TopModule with the following interface. All input and output ports are one bit unless otherwise specified.",
        "implementation": "module TopModule (\n    input clk,\n    input resetn,\n    input [2:0] r,\n    output reg [2:0] g\n);\n\n    // State encoding\n    typedef enum reg [1:0] {\n        STATE_A = 2'b00,\n        STATE_B = 2'b01,\n        STATE_C = 2'b10,\n        STATE_D = 2'b11\n    } state_t;\n\n    state_t current_state, next_state;\n\n    // State transition logic\n    always @(*) begin\n        case (current_state)\n            STATE_A: begin\n                if (r[0])\n                    next_state = STATE_B;\n                else if (r[1])\n                    next_state = STATE_C;\n                else if (r[2])\n                    next_state = STATE_D;\n                else\n                    next_state = STATE_A;\n            end\n            STATE_B: begin\n                if (r[0])\n                    next_state = STATE_B;\n                else\n                    next_state = STATE_A;\n            end\n            STATE_C: begin\n                if (r[1])\n                    next_state = STATE_C;\n                else\n                    next_state = STATE_A;\n            end\n            STATE_D: begin\n                next_state = STATE_A;\n            end\n            default: next_state = STATE_A;\n        endcase\n    end\n\n    // State flip-flops\n    always @(posedge clk or negedge resetn) begin\n        if (!resetn)\n            current_state <= STATE_A;\n        else\n            current_state <= next_state;\n    end\n\n    // Output logic\n    always @(*) begin\n        g = 3'b000;\n        case (current_state)\n            STATE_B: g[0] = 1'b1;\n            STATE_C: g[1] = 1'b1;\n            STATE_D: g[2] = 1'b1;\n            default: g = 3'b000;\n        endcase\n    end\n\nendmodule"
    },
    {
        "id": "2",
        "content": "Define the state encoding for the FSM with states A, B, C, and D.",
        "source": "Assign any state codes that you wish to use.",
        "implementation": "// State encoding for the FSM\n  localparam STATE_A = 2'b00;\n  localparam STATE_B = 2'b01;\n  localparam STATE_C = 2'b10;\n  localparam STATE_D = 2'b11;"
    },
    {
        "id": "3",
        "content": "Implement the state flip-flops for state transitions, triggered on the positive edge of the clock and synchronous active-low reset.",
        "source": "Resetn is an active-low synchronous reset that resets into state A. Assume all sequential logic is triggered on the positive edge of the clock.",
        "implementation": "// State encoding\n  localparam STATE_A = 2'b00;\n  localparam STATE_B = 2'b01;\n  localparam STATE_C = 2'b10;\n  localparam STATE_D = 2'b11;\n\n  // State register\n  reg [1:0] current_state, next_state;\n\n  // State flip-flops with synchronous active-low reset\n  always @(posedge clk) begin\n    if (!resetn)\n      current_state <= STATE_A; // Reset to state A\n    else\n      current_state <= next_state; // Transition to next state\n  end"
    },
    {
        "id": "4",
        "content": "Implement the state transition logic based on the input r[2:0] and current state, following the state diagram.",
        "source": "The module should implement the FSM described by the state diagram shown below: A --r0=0,r1=0,r2=0--> A, A -------r0=1-------> B, A -----r0=0,r1=1----> C, A --r0=0,r1=0,r2=0--> D, B (g0=1) -------r0=1-------> B, B (g0=1) -------r0=0-------> A, C (g1=1) -------r1=1-------> C, C (g1=1) -------r1=0-------> A",
        "implementation": "// State encoding\n  localparam STATE_A = 2'b00;\n  localparam STATE_B = 2'b01;\n  localparam STATE_C = 2'b10;\n  localparam STATE_D = 2'b11;\n\n  reg [1:0] current_state, next_state;\n\n  // State transition logic\n  always @(*) begin\n    case (current_state)\n      STATE_A: begin\n        if (r[0] == 1'b1)\n          next_state = STATE_B;\n        else if (r[0] == 1'b0 && r[1] == 1'b1)\n          next_state = STATE_C;\n        else if (r[0] == 1'b0 && r[1] == 1'b0 && r[2] == 1'b0)\n          next_state = STATE_D;\n        else\n          next_state = STATE_A;\n      end\n      STATE_B: begin\n        if (r[0] == 1'b1)\n          next_state = STATE_B;\n        else\n          next_state = STATE_A;\n      end\n      STATE_C: begin\n        if (r[1] == 1'b1)\n          next_state = STATE_C;\n        else\n          next_state = STATE_A;\n      end\n      default: next_state = STATE_A; // Default case to handle unexpected states\n    endcase\n  end"
    },
    {
        "id": "5",
        "content": "Implement the output logic for g[2:0] based on the current state, using either continuous assignment or an always block.",
        "source": "The FSM stays in state A as long as there are no requests. When one or more request occurs, then the FSM decides which device receives a grant to use the resource and changes to a state that sets that device's g[i] signal to 1.",
        "implementation": "reg [2:0] g;\nreg [1:0] state;\n\nlocalparam A = 2'b00, B = 2'b01, C = 2'b10, D = 2'b11;\n\nalways @(*) begin\n    case (state)\n        A: g = 3'b000; // No grants in state A\n        B: g = 3'b001; // Grant to device 0\n        C: g = 3'b010; // Grant to device 1\n        D: g = 3'b100; // Grant to device 2\n        default: g = 3'b000; // Default case\n    endcase\nend"
    }
]

Modified Base Query:


I would like you to implement a module named TopModule with the following
interface. All input and output ports are one bit unless otherwise
specified.

 - input  clk
 - input  resetn
 - input  r (3 bits)
 - output g (3 bits)

The module should implement the FSM described by the state diagram shown
below:

  A        --r0=0,r1=0,r2=0--> A
  A        -------r0=1-------> B
  A        -----r0=0,r1=1----> C
  A        --r0=0,r1=0,r2=0--> D
  B (g0=1) -------r0=1-------> B
  B (g0=1) -------r0=0-------> A
  C (g1=1) -------r1=1-------> C
  C (g1=1) -------r1=0-------> A

Resetn is an active-low synchronous reset that resets into state A. This
FSM acts as an arbiter circuit, which controls access to some type of
resource by three requesting devices. Each device makes its request for
the resource by setting a signal _r[i]_ = 1, where _r[i]_ is either
_r[0]_, _r[1]_, or _r[2]_. Each r[i] is an input signal to the FSM, and
represents one of the three devices. The FSM stays in state _A_ as long
as there are no requests. When one or more request occurs, then the FSM
decides which device receives a grant to use the resource and changes to
a state that sets that device's _g[i]_ signal to 1. Each _g[i]_ is an
output from the FSM. There is a priority system, in that device 0 has a
higher priority than device 1, and device 2 has the lowest priority.
Hence, for example, device 2 will only receive a grant if it is the only
device making a request when the FSM is in state _A_. Once a device, _i_,
is given a grant by the FSM, that device continues to receive the grant
as long as its request, _r[i]_ = 1.

Implement a module that represents this FSM. Use separate always blocks
for the state table and the state flip-flops, as done in lectures.
Describe the FSM outputs, _g[i]_, using either continuous assignment
statement(s) or an always block (at your discretion). Assign any state
codes that you wish to use. Assume all sequential logic is triggered on
the positive edge of the clock.

